

Personal
Business

Kids & Teens
Company
Log in
Sign up

It's official — Revolut is now a bank in the UK
News
 · 
11 March 2026
Team Revolut
Revolut is now a bank in the UK. This means our new entity, Revolut Bank UK Ltd (“UK Bank”), is authorised to offer UK bank accounts and accept customer deposits.

The UK Bank is supervised by both the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), meaning Revolut Bank is subject to the same regulatory standards and regimes as other UK banks. With this change, we’ll offer UK-based customers bank accounts protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). This means up to £120,000 in deposit insurance protection on eligible deposits per person.

Over the next few months, we’ll begin to seamlessly transition eligible customers to Revolut Bank UK Ltd.  Read on to learn more about what this change means and how it’ll impact our customers going forward.


What it means to be a bank

As a bank without restrictions, we’ll offer customers bank accounts, also known as current accounts, through Revolut Bank UK Ltd.

What will change?

FSCS protection: your eligible deposits will be protected by the FSCS up to £120,000 per person. Exclusions apply — see the FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List for details.

Travel Insurance: your travel insurance group policy numbers will be updated, but your insurance terms and protection remain the same. The new numbers are:

Metal plans: UK409992764
Ultra plans: UK409992765
It also means we’ll be able to launch more advanced banking features — so keep an eye out for future benefits. 

What will stay the same?

Account details: your account number, sort code, IBAN, and BIC will stay the same. Our address remains unchanged, so you can continue to use it for transfers.
App functionality: your Revolut app will work as usual, and you’ll still have access to all your account information, including transaction and statement history from before the transition.
What comes next for Revolut customers?

Eligible Revolut accounts will be transitioned to a UK bank account. 

We’ll reach out to eligible customers when it’s time to begin transitioning their account, and once their account is officially moved over to a bank account. After that, your account will be ready for new banking features as we launch them in the coming months. 

How to check your account’s entity:

Customers can check which entity they’re on in-app by navigating to their Details from the home screen. Either Revolut Bank UK Ltd or Revolut Ltd's name will be visible.

Who’s eligible for account transition?

We’ll transition the accounts of all Revolut customers who have an active account registered in the UK.

If you don’t want to transition to Revolut Bank UK Ltd, you can close your account at any time. To do this, go to your profile icon in-app, tap Account, and scroll down to select Close account. Learn more about closing your account.

We understand you need to do what’s best for you, but we’ll be sad to see you go.

How to keep your account secure 

Be cautious of potential fraud. We’ll only contact you about these changes by email or through in-app messaging. Links in emails can pose a risk if you’re unsure of the sender. Access linked content through the ‘UK Bank migration banner’ in-app.
We won’t text or call you about this change. If you receive any calls or texts about the bank account transition, do not trust them unless you initiated the contact through our in-app chat.
What else should customers know?

Once UK Revolut accounts are transitioned to current accounts, the below protections will apply:

FSCS protection: after the transition, customers' eligible balances will be deposited with Revolut Bank UK Ltd and protected by the FSCS up to £120,000 per customer. This applies to current accounts, Kids & Teens accounts, 16–17 accounts, Pockets, Group Pockets, Joint accounts, and Pro accounts.
Savings: balances in your Savings will continue to be provided by Revolut Ltd and not Revolut Bank UK Ltd. Your Savings balances will be deposited with third-party partner banks and protected by the FSCS up to £120,000 for each eligible person per account, per bank. This protection is separate from your Revolut UK Bank FSCS limit, and the FSCS limit applies to your total eligible deposits with the partner bank. Find your Savings partner bank list in-app and in your Savings T&Cs.
Services not listed above, including Crypto, Commodities, or Stocks are provided by different entities and do not fall under Revolut Bank UK Ltd's FSCS protection.

How does this impact Revolut plans and products?

Revolut plans: your paid plans will remain the same, with no changes to fees or charges.
Revolut products: all the services and features you love, such as stock trading, cryptocurrency, and commodities, will remain unchanged. Stock trading is provided by Revolut Trading Ltd, and cryptocurrency and commodities by Revolut Ltd.
Revolut — Kids & Teens accounts: if you have a Kids & Teens account linked to your personal account, it’ll also be transitioned to a UK bank account. The £120,000 FSCS limit applies to the total of the parent account and all linked Revolut Kids & Teens accounts.
Joint accounts: your Joint account will be transitioned at the same time as your personal Revolut account. If either you or your co account-holder decides to opt out, the Joint account will be closed, and the balance will be split 50:50.
The legal bits

Terms and conditions: once your account is transitioned, it'll be subject to new terms and conditions.
Personal data: once your account is transitioned, Revolut Bank UK Ltd will become a controller of your personal data. See our Customer Privacy Notice for more information on how we process your personal data. 
Making a complaint: if you’d like to make a complaint, you can do so directly through our in-app chat. If you’re not satisfied with our response or if the issue isn’t resolved within 8 weeks, you can seek help from the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Any questions?

If you have any concerns or questions, reach out to our 24/7 customer support via the in-app chat. For more information, check out our FAQs.

Share article

Choose your plan

Standard
Free
For the financial basics — everything you need for better money management in one place. Sending money abroad or sticking to a budget has never been easier.
Plus
£3.99/month
For the smart spender — access additional benefits like better limits for spending abroad and insurance for your purchases, on our affordable paid plan.
Premium
£7.99/month
For elevating every day — access exclusive subscriptions, better savings rates, and exchange unlimited amounts of money.
Metal
£14.99/month
For the global travellers and traders — relax with travel insurance, enjoy enhanced limits, and subscriptions worth £2,200 annually.
Ultra
£55/month (introductory offer)
For those seeking the best of Revolut — get exceptional benefits like unlimited airport lounge access, monthly global data, partner subscriptions, and cancellation cover.
© Revolut Bank UK Ltd 2026 

To find out more about which Revolut entity you receive services from, please check our corresponding FAQ page. If you have any other questions, please reach out to us via the in-app chat in the Revolut app.

Revolut Bank UK Ltd (is registered in England and Wales (Registered No. 12871051). Registered address: 30 South Colonnade, London, E14 5HX. Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority (Financial Services Register No. 981170).

Revolut Ltd is registered in England and Wales (No. 08804411), is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to offer e-money and payment services under the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 (FRN: 900562), and is registered with the Financial Conduct Authority to offer cryptocurrency services under the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017. Commodities services are provided by Revolut Ltd and are not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.

Revolut Travel Ltd (No. 10618740) is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to undertake insurance distribution activities (FRN: 780586). Our insurance products are arranged by Revolut Travel Ltd and Revolut Ltd, an appointed representative of Revolut Travel Ltd. 

Investment services are provided by Revolut Trading Ltd (No. 11567840), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FRN: 933846).

The registered address of Revolut Ltd, Revolut Travel Ltd, and Revolut Trading Ltd is at 30 South Colonnade, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HX. You can read more about our terms and policies here.

International Money Transfers: Send Money to India | Send Money to Nigeria | Send Money to Poland | Send Money to Ghana | Send Money to Dubai | Send Money to the UK from India | Send Money to Saudi Arabia | Send Money to North Macedonia | Send Money to Kazakhstan

Currency Converter: Convert GBP to INR | Convert USD to GBP | Convert GBP to EUR | Convert GBP to USD | Convert EUR to GBP | Convert GBP to PKR | Convert GBP to TRY | Convert GBP to HKD | Convert KRW to GBP | Convert AED to GBP | Convert INR to GBP | Convert GBP to CAD | Compare Exchange Rates

Revolut USA | Revolut Spain | Revolut Australia | Revolut Singapore | Revolut Estonia
Global Finances
International Transfers
Lounges
Insurance
Investments
Stocks
Stocks & Shares ISA
Commodities
Help
Contact Us
Help Centre
System Status
Developers API
Site Map
Company
Sustainability
Code of Conduct
Security & Protection
How We Protect Your Money
Report Lost Device
Learn About Fraud & Scams
Security Bugs
Consumer Security Insight Report
Crypto
Crypto
Revolut Ramp
Revolut X
Plans
Standard
Plus
Premium
Metal
Ultra
Compare Plans
Accounts
Bank Account
Joint Account
Professional Account
Savings Account
For ages 16-17
Parents and guardians
Mobile & Connectivity
Mobile Plans
Data Plans
Smart Spending
Cards
Send & Receive
Revolut Pay
Money Management
RevPoints
Linked Accounts
Shops

GB
United Kingdom
Website Terms
Legal Agreements
Complaints
Privacy
UK Modern Slavery Policy
Customer Vulnerability
Data Privacy Statement for Candidates
