
Personal
Business

Kids & Teens
Company
Log in
Sign up

How we protect your funds — FSCS protection on UK Revolut bank accounts
Security
 · 
23 March 2026
Team Revolut
Revolut Bank UK Ltd is a bank, authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulatory Authority. This means that your money is protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Let’s dive into how this works, and what FSCS protection means for customers of our UK Bank.

How is your money protected at Revolut?

The Bank (Revolut Bank UK Ltd) provides the same level of protection for your funds as any bank in the UK. 

The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is an independent statutory organisation that protects your money in case the bank fails. In this unlikely case, FSCS is legally obliged to pay back eligible customers up to a maximum compensation amount, which is currently £120,000 per person per bank (for eligible deposits). FSCS aims to pay compensation within 7 days of a bank or building society failing, ensuring that your funds are quickly and reliably available to you.

You’ll have peace of mind knowing your funds are secured if anything should happen, just like with any other bank.

What other kind of protections are there?

Aside from FSCS protection providing a safety net, here are other ways we help keep your account protected:

Dedicated accounts: we also take additional steps to help keep your funds safe. Your money is held in dedicated accounts, separate from our operational funds, so it’s available when you need it.
Always-on security: every account has 24/7 protection through proactive, purpose-built defences and a team of specialists. And if something looks suspicious, our machine learning models can pick it up. We’ll notify you and take action immediately. If we freeze your card, you can review, and unfreeze it if needed.
In-app controls: you can personalise and manage over 10 security settings within the app for extra layers of defence that suit your needs. Freeze your card in-app, turn on Wealth Protection to confirm certain withdrawals with biometrics, report a lost device, and more.
All the while, our Revolut Support team is available when you need us — reach out 24/7 via the in-app chat. 

What if I have multiple accounts with Revolut?

FSCS protection applies to all the eligible deposits you keep in your Revolut Bank UK Ltd account — including across your current account and other linked Revolut Bank accounts.

The FSCS compensation limit of £120,000 applies per person per authorised bank. This means your total eligible deposits across Revolut Bank UK Ltd — including your current account, Kids & Teens accounts, 16–17 accounts, Pockets, Group Pockets, Joint accounts, and Pro accounts — are covered up to £120,000 in total. For Joint accounts, the £120,000 limit applies to each account holder individually.

If you hold a savings account with Revolut, this is provided by Revolut Ltd, not Revolut Bank UK Ltd. The money in your savings account is held with a third-party partner bank, and is protected by the FSCS up to £120,000 per eligible person, per partner bank. This protection is separate from the £120,000 FSCS coverage for Revolut Bank UK Ltd, meaning you could be covered for both, depending on your individual balances and the partner bank used.

Anything else I should know?

Please note that stocks, cryptocurrencies, or commodities available through Revolut aren't protected by FSCS, as they're separate from deposit-based products.

For Revolut Business customers, there are some business categories that aren’t eligible for FSCS protection. Please see the FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List for full details.

For more information on FSCS protection, please check the FSCS website.

Share article

Choose your plan

Standard
Free
For the financial basics — everything you need for better money management in one place. Sending money abroad or sticking to a budget has never been easier.
Plus
£3.99/month
For the smart spender — access additional benefits like better limits for spending abroad and insurance for your purchases, on our affordable paid plan.
Premium
£7.99/month
For elevating every day — access exclusive subscriptions, better savings rates, and exchange unlimited amounts of money.
Metal
£14.99/month
For the global travellers and traders — relax with travel insurance, enjoy enhanced limits, and subscriptions worth £2,200 annually.
Ultra
£55/month (introductory offer)
For those seeking the best of Revolut — get exceptional benefits like unlimited airport lounge access, monthly global data, partner subscriptions, and cancellation cover.
© Revolut Bank UK Ltd 2026 

To find out more about which Revolut entity you receive services from, please check our corresponding FAQ page. If you have any other questions, please reach out to us via the in-app chat in the Revolut app.

Revolut Bank UK Ltd (is registered in England and Wales (Registered No. 12871051). Registered address: 30 South Colonnade, London, E14 5HX. Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority (Financial Services Register No. 981170).

Revolut Ltd is registered in England and Wales (No. 08804411), is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to offer e-money and payment services under the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 (FRN: 900562), and is registered with the Financial Conduct Authority to offer cryptocurrency services under the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017. Commodities services are provided by Revolut Ltd and are not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.

Revolut Travel Ltd (No. 10618740) is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to undertake insurance distribution activities (FRN: 780586). Our insurance products are arranged by Revolut Travel Ltd and Revolut Ltd, an appointed representative of Revolut Travel Ltd. 

Investment services are provided by Revolut Trading Ltd (No. 11567840), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FRN: 933846).

The registered address of Revolut Ltd, Revolut Travel Ltd, and Revolut Trading Ltd is at 30 South Colonnade, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HX. You can read more about our terms and policies here.

International Money Transfers: Send Money to India | Send Money to Nigeria | Send Money to Poland | Send Money to Ghana | Send Money to Dubai | Send Money to the UK from India | Send Money to Saudi Arabia | Send Money to North Macedonia | Send Money to Kazakhstan

Currency Converter: Convert GBP to INR | Convert USD to GBP | Convert GBP to EUR | Convert GBP to USD | Convert EUR to GBP | Convert GBP to PKR | Convert GBP to TRY | Convert GBP to HKD | Convert KRW to GBP | Convert AED to GBP | Convert INR to GBP | Convert GBP to CAD | Compare Exchange Rates

Revolut USA | Revolut Spain | Revolut Australia | Revolut Singapore | Revolut Estonia
Global Finances
International Transfers
Lounges
Insurance
Investments
Stocks
Stocks & Shares ISA
Commodities
Help
Contact Us
Help Centre
System Status
Developers API
Site Map
Company
Sustainability
Code of Conduct
Security & Protection
How We Protect Your Money
Report Lost Device
Learn About Fraud & Scams
Security Bugs
Consumer Security Insight Report
Crypto
Crypto
Revolut Ramp
Revolut X
Plans
Standard
Plus
Premium
Metal
Ultra
Compare Plans
Accounts
Bank Account
Joint Account
Professional Account
Savings Account
For ages 16-17
Parents and guardians
Mobile & Connectivity
Mobile Plans
Data Plans
Smart Spending
Cards
Send & Receive
Revolut Pay
Money Management
RevPoints
Linked Accounts
Shops

GB
United Kingdom
Website Terms
Legal Agreements
Complaints
Privacy
UK Modern Slavery Policy
Customer Vulnerability
Data Privacy Statement for Candidates
